what sort of information would this produce:

How often do you use a computer
every day
once a week
every few weeks
once a month

quantitative or quantitative

#######

"Please comment on your response to the above"

quantitative or qualitative

#########

Have you ever booked a holiday online

quantitative or qualitative

#########

If you answered yes to the previous question, please describe your experience in more detail

quantitative or qualitative

########

Please describe how you use the computers at a public library

could be both, depends



1/11 Qualitative data analysis
We are now going to focus on qualitative data analysis. Let's start with simple definitions and explanations:

In contrast to quantitative data, qualitative data does not simply count things, but is a way of recording people's attitudes, feelings and behaviours in greater depth.

Qualitative data analysis is:

Often based on grounded theory practices (link to explanation of grounded theory)
Answers the 'why?' questions
Pays greater attention to individual cases
Sources of qualitative data analysis
We can gather qualitative data in a variety of ways, for example:

Questionnaires/Surveys: a series of questions and other prompts for the purpose of gathering information from respondents..
Interviews: a conversation between two or more people (the interviewer and the interviewee) where questions are asked by the interviewer to obtain information from the interviewee.
Focus Groups: a group of people are asked about their attitude towards a product, service, concept, advertisement, idea, or packaging.
Observation: a group or single participants are manipulated by the researcher, for example, asked to perform a specific task or action. Observations are then made of their user behaviour, user processes, workflows etc, either in a controlled situation (e.g. lab based) or in a real-world situation (e.g. the workplace).
Discourse Analysis: a general term for a number of approaches to analyzing written, spoken or signed language use.
Why we do qualitative data analysis
Looks further than precise numerical evidence
Looks for categories such as events, descriptions, comments, behaviour
An inductive process - developing theories from the data you have gathered
Coding of categories and sub-categories identified
Compares codes, looking for consistencies, differences, patterns etc
Looks for new and emerging categories.





Advantages and Disadvantages of Qualitative Data Analysis
Qualitative data provides a rich, detailed picture to be built up about why people act in certain ways, and their feelings about these actions. However, it is important to be aware of the advantages and disadvantages of qualitative data analysis as this may influence your choice of data collection.

 

Advantages of qualitative data analysis:
click this image to check if your answers from exercise one is the same as ours

Provides depth and detail : looks deeper than analysing ranks and counts by recording attitudes, feelings and behaviours
Creates openness: encouraging people to expand on their responses can open up new topic areas not initially considered
Simulates people's individual experiences: a detailed picture can be built up about why people act in certain ways and their feelings about these actions
Attempts to avoid pre-judgements: if used alongside quantitative data collection, it can explain why a particular response was given
Disadvantages of qualitative data analysis:
click this image to check if your answers from exercise one is the same as ours

Usually fewer people studied: collection of qualitative data is generally more time consuming that quantitative data collection and therefore unless time, staff and budget allows it is generally necessary to include a smaller sample size.
Less easy to generalise: because fewer people are generally studied it is not possible to generalise results to that of the population. Usually exact numbers are reported rather than percentages.
Difficult to make systematic comparisons: for example, if people give widely differing responses that are highly subjective.
Dependent on skills of the researcher: particularly in the case of conducting interviews, focus groups and observation.

Qualitative research issues
Establishing Trustworthiness: In qualitative research data must be auditable through checking that the interpretations are credible, transferable, dependable and confirmable.

Credibility improved through long engagement with the respondents or triangulation in data collection (internal validity)

Transferability achieved through a detailed description of the research process to allow a reader to see if the results can be transferred to a different setting (external validity)

Dependability examined through the audit trail (reliability) e.g. member checking.

Confirmability audit trail categories used e.g. raw data included, data analysis and reduction processes described, data reconstruction and synthesis including structuring of categories and themes, process notes included, instrument development information included

Thinking about qualitative data analysis
Below is a list of actions you might complete as part of some qualitative data collection and analysis. There are nine steps for you to allocate a number of order. You can type the number you think the task would be done in e.g. one for the first step through to nine for the final step. There are no right or wrong answers however, after you complete the task, you can view the order we might approach it.

 Summary sheets for each response - This is usually done after you have transcribed your notes, summaries can then be used as a memory jogger when your are looking for categories and themes, or if you need to return to observe or ask further questions.

 Discussion - This usually takes place after you have done some analysis of your data, when you have found out if any interesting patterns or themes have emerged

 Conclusion - Conclusions sum up the analysis your have done of your data and any interesting discussions

 Initial Processing - This is usually done once you transcribed you notes, it usually involved reading and re-reading your notes looking for categories and themes

 Return to observe or ask further questions - This is usually done after you have done some initial processing, and can then be done at any time during your study if and when required

 Identify categories relating to patterns or themes identified - This is usually done after you have identified the core categories of your study, which are found in your transcribed notes

 Recommendations - Recommendations tend to come at the end of you study, they may include specific recommendations relating to the findings of your study or may suggest where extra data collection and analysis activities are required

 Transcription of notes - This is usually the first action after you have collected your data from questionnaires, interviews, observation etc

 Coding - This is usually done after you have identified categories relating to the patterns or themes identified

click this image to check if your answers are the same as ours

1. Transcription of notes - This is usually the first action after you have collected your data from questionnaires, interviews, observation etc

2. Initial processing - This is usually done once you transcribed you notes, it usually involved reading and re-reading your notes looking for categories and themes

3. Return to observe or ask further questions - This is usually done after you have done some initial processing, and can then be done at any time during your study if and when required

4. Summary sheets for each response - This is usually done after you have transcribed your notes, summaries can then be used as a memory jogger when your are looking for categories and themes, or if you need to return to observe or ask further questions

5. Identify categories relating to patterns or themes identified - This is usually done after you have identified the core categories of your study, which are found in your transcribed notes

6. Coding - This is usually done after you have identified categories relating to the patterns or themes identified.

7. Discussion - This usually takes place after you have done some analysis of your data, when you have found out if any interesting patterns or themes have emerged

8. Conclusions - Conclusions sum up the analysis your have done of your data and any interesting discussions

9. Recommendations - Recommendations tend to come at the end of you study, they may include specific recommendations relating to the findings of your study or may suggest where extra data collection and analysis activities are required


Usability is the measurement of how easily users can accomplish their goals.

We measure this by coming up with a plan to observe users, observing them, and reporting on what worked for them, and what was a barrier.

This reporting has to be filtered through our expert opinion, as users may not know WHY things didn't work for them, or how to fix them.




Definitions (What are we trying to measure?)
Best practices (What's the ideal?)
Measurement (How do we collect information?)
Analysis (How do we synthesize that information?)
Reporting (How do we communicate what we've learned?)
Accessibility: Bonus Round
Presentations


1 Definitions
2 Measurement: Collecting data
3 Measurement: Analyzing & reporting
4 Best practices: The DOM and assistive devices
5 Best practices: Content & inputs
6 Best practices: Navigation